articles/9.DistributedLoadTesting.md, before:


# LPS Distributed Preview Version

The **Distributed Version (Preview)** of the LPS Tool introduces support for distributed load testing using a master-slave architecture. This feature enables scaling across multiple nodes, where a master node coordinates the test and workers execute it.

## How It Works

The architecture follows a **master-slave model**, where:

- **Master Node**: Aggregates metrics, maintains the global state, and hosts the dashboard.
- **Worker Nodes**: Receive test commands locally and wait until the master node is in a `Ready` or `Running` state before executing tests.

All communication between master and workers is done over **gRPC**.

**Important:**  
The **master node does not send start commands** to workers. Instead, the test command must be executed **on each worker node**. If the master is not yet ready or running when a worker starts, the worker registers as an observer and waits to be instructed to run once the master transitions to a ready state.

If the GRPC port is not open on the master/local node the conneting party will **timeout** after around 21 or 42 seconds due to TCP handshale failure.

## Cluster Configuration

To enable distributed mode, configure the following section in `config/lpsSettings.json`:

```json
"Cluster": {
  "MasterNodeIP": "192.168.27.196",
  "MasterNodeIsWorker": true,
  "GRPCPort": 8999,
  "ExpectedNumberOfWorkers": 2
}
```

### Settings Description

- `MasterNodeIP`: IP address of the master node. Workers use this to send their metrics and status updates.
- `MasterNodeIsWorker`: If `true`, the master node will also run test iterations in addition to orchestrating them.
- `GRPCPort`: Port used for gRPC communication. Default is `5001`.
- `ExpectedNumberOfWorkers`: Currently **not used** in the preview version.

## Notes

- The dashboard is **hosted on the master node**, which displays test metrics aggregated from all workers.
- Workers will **not start the test** unless the master node is in a `Ready` or `Running` state.
- gRPC ports must be open and accessible between all participating nodes.
- Test execution must be triggered individually on each node.

## Example

- Configure the lps cluster:

```json
"Cluster": {
  "MasterNodeIP": "192.168.27.196",
  "MasterNodeIsWorker": true,
  "GRPCPort": 8999,
  "ExpectedNumberOfWorkers": 2
}

```
- Run your test using our Cli command, for example ```lps --url "https://www.example.com" -h https://www.example.com --requestcount 700```. The command must be executed on every node.


This is the **preview version**, so behavior may change in future stable releases. Feedback and testing are welcome.

Commit message:

adding a comparison between the LPS and the other tools in the market

articles/9.DistributedLoadTesting.md, after:


# LPS Distributed Preview Version

The **Distributed Version (Preview)** of the LPS Tool introduces support for distributed load testing using a master-slave architecture. This feature enables scaling across multiple nodes, where a master node coordinates the test and workers execute it.

## How It Works

The architecture follows a **master-slave model**, where:

- **Master Node**: Aggregates metrics, maintains the global state, and hosts the dashboard.
- **Worker Nodes**: Receive test commands locally and wait until the master node is in a `Ready` or `Running` state before executing tests.

All communication between master and workers is done over **gRPC**.

**Important:**  
The **master node does not send start commands** to workers. Instead, the test command must be executed **on each worker node**. If the master is not yet ready or running when a worker starts, the worker registers as an observer and waits to be instructed to run once the master transitions to a ready state.

If the GRPC port is not open on the master/local node the conneting party will **timeout** after around 21 or 42 seconds due to TCP handshale failure.

## Cluster Configuration

To enable distributed mode, configure the following section in `config/lpsSettings.json`:

```json
"Cluster": {
  "MasterNodeIP": "192.168.27.196",
  "MasterNodeIsWorker": true,
  "GRPCPort": 8999,
  "ExpectedNumberOfWorkers": 2
}
```

### Settings Description

- `MasterNodeIP`: IP address of the master node. Workers use this to send their metrics and status updates.
- `MasterNodeIsWorker`: If `true`, the master node will also run test iterations in addition to orchestrating them.
- `GRPCPort`: Port used for gRPC communication. Default is `5001`.
- `ExpectedNumberOfWorkers`: Currently **not used** in the preview version.

## Notes

- The dashboard is **hosted on the master node**, which displays test metrics aggregated from all workers.
- Workers will **not start the test** unless the master node is in a `Ready` or `Running` state.
- gRPC ports must be open and accessible between all participating nodes.
- Test execution must be triggered individually on each node.

## Example

- Configure the lps cluster:

```json
"Cluster": {
  "MasterNodeIP": "192.168.27.196",
  "MasterNodeIsWorker": true,
  "GRPCPort": 8999,
  "ExpectedNumberOfWorkers": 2
}

```

#### Cli Example:

**Configure a master node with 3 workers:**
```bash
lps cluster -mip 192.168.1.100 -gp 8999 -ew 3
```

**Configure master node that also acts as a worker:**
```bash
lps cluster -mip 192.168.1.100 -gp 8999 -ew 2 -miw
```

**Configure with custom gRPC port:**
```bash
lps cluster -mip 10.0.0.50 -gp 5001 -ew 5
```

#### Notes:
- The cluster command configures the `Cluster` section in the `config/lpsSettings.json` file.
- After configuration, run your test on the master node and each worker node using the same test plan.
- Workers will automatically connect to the master and wait for the test to start.
- The master node aggregates metrics from all workers and displays them on the dashboard.
- Ensure the gRPC port is open and accessible between all nodes in the cluster.

- Run your test using our Cli command, for example ```lps --url "https://www.example.com" -h https://www.example.com --requestcount 700```. The command must be executed on every node.
